;; CxUniverse — the collector of the upper spindle.  Sees every upper member
;; (CxAbstract, CxOrganism, CxSociety, CxLife, CxMeasure, CxSpace, CxTime),
;; so cross-member disjointness assertions that require both sides visible
;; live here rather than in CxCore (which cannot see the members) or in one
;; member (which cannot see the other).  A claim whose terms one member sees belongs
;; to that member.

;; --- cross-member disjointness (upper spindle) ---
;; organization and animal are separated by (partition thing tangible intangible) in
;; CxCore: organization is intangible and animal is tangible.  animal is also disjoint
;; from four of CxAbstract's made kinds: an animal is never a building, a piece of
;; clothing, a furniture or a machine.
(set/monotonic (disjoint animal building))
(set/monotonic (disjoint animal clothing))
(set/monotonic (disjoint animal furniture))
(set/monotonic (disjoint animal machine))
;; animal and vehicle are disjoint at the default strength rather than monotonic: a
;; fiction below CxWell may except the default and hold a term that is both. CxRealWorld
;; restates the same separation monotonic, so the real world can never hold the overlap.
(disjoint animal vehicle)

;; --- the shipped contexts ---
;; Every genlCx edge is stored here, and (arg genlCx 1 context) and (arg genlCx 2 context)
;; type both of its arguments, so the memberships are stated here as well.
(context CxAbstract)
(context CxAnatomy)
(context CxBiology)
(context CxChange)
(context CxCore)
(context CxKinship)
(context CxLife)
(context CxMeasure)
(context CxMereology)
(context CxOrganism)
(context CxPerception)
(context CxRealWorld)
(context CxSize)
(context CxSocial)
(context CxSocialExtension)
(context CxSociety)
(context CxSpace)
(context CxTime)
(context CxUniverse)
(context CxWell)

;; --- cross-member related clusters (upper spindle) ---
;; time_interval is CxAbstract's; Duration, the dimension a stretch of time is
;; measured in, is CxMeasure's.
(termsRelated time_interval Duration)

;; --- travelling / flying: event kinds an ability names ------------------------
;; CxLife's hasCapability and capabilityType take an event kind as their second argument:
;; (hasCapability Tweety flying) says Tweety can be the doer of a flying event.  The event
;; kinds are stated in the collector: they relate CxLife's abilities to CxAbstract's causal_event,
;; and only the collector sees both.
(comment travelling "A causal event of getting from one place to another under the doer's own power. flying is a kind of travelling; another way of travelling is stated as its own event kind below travelling.")
(genl travelling causal_event)

(comment flying "A travelling event through the air under the doer's own power. A kind of travelling, so whatever can fly can travel without that being stated twice.")
(genl flying travelling)
